---
layout: narrative
title: "From the memory of a transvestite"
author: Friedel Werner
---

[The Third Sex](/das-dritte-geschlecht/) Issue 3, article 9 (February 1931)

The issue of procuring women's underwear is probably one of the most important for us transvestites[^fn1]. Because only a few transvestites[^fn2] are able to dress completely as a lady according to their disposition, most of them will have to content themselves with wearing lingerie. However, many transvestites[^fn2] will have difficulties in getting the beautiful lingerie they want. Difficulties that are both subjective and objective in nature. It happened to me that way and I still feel the same way today. In the following I want to chat a little bit about the results I got when I bought my first ladies and girls underwear.

The first piece of women's underwear I bought was a pretty white girl's bloomers. I was around 17 years old at the time. I had saved up my meager pocket change for a long time until I had gathered the required sum. And for almost as long, I had looked around for a suitable lingerie store in the near and far vicinity of my parents' apartment, where I wanted to buy the coveted underwear. It had to be a shop with little traffic; because in a busy shop I would not have been able to ask for a girl's bloomers as a youth. I also wanted to be served by a man. There was also the fact that not all small lingerie shops that sell women's lingerie also have girls' lingerie in stock. After a long search, I finally found a suitable business. I could hardly wait until I had the money. In the meantime, I often walked past the shop I knew in order to at least see what I wanted in the shop window. At last it was time. I had thought carefully beforehand what I wanted to say in the business. When I came to the land, a customer was there and I had to wait. If I wanted to refrain from buying lace panties at all (it was the first one anyway), I immediately had a different mind when I looked at the beautiful women's underwear again in the shop window and, what at the moment I liked most interested looking at the cute, sweet white bloomers for girls. In the meantime the woman had come out of the shop and I took my heart and went inside. But I could not carry out my intention to be frank and free as I had planned to demand a girl's bloomers. I asked for a collar button first because I couldn't think of anything else. While the shopkeeper was looking for this button, I had calmed myself down enough that when I was asked if I had anything else I could say in what seemed to be a shaky voice: A pair of bloomers for a girl of about sixteen. Since the good man did not understand me straight away, I even had to repeat my wish again. I was astonished that the man would go to another table so easily and take a whole pack of white girls' bloomers with embroidery decoration from a shelf and spread them on the counter. After I was shown different designs, simple and better, I decided on a pair of bloomers of medium quality, because I had to comply with the amount of money available. I went home very proud and happy because I had been able to fulfill my dearest wish.

[^fn1]: _Transvestiten_
[^fn2]: \_nur wenige der transvestitisch veranlagten Männer_s
